-: Welcome back.
In this section, we are going to understand
about ALB Ingress controller on a very high level.
So, before going to ALB Ingress controller,
we are going to look into AWS application load balancer.
So, let's see what is application load balancer
and then what it supports,
and how this application load balancer can be created
from Kubernetes manifest using ALB Ingress manifest,
using ALB Ingress controller.
So, we are going to see all those things
in our this respective section, okay?
So, let's move on with what is application load balancer
in AWS, right?
So, ALB is a super advanced,
next generation load balancer in AWS.
So, it supports tons of features.
Let's see what are those to get a high level idea
on how much it is capable of, okay?
So, it supports path-based routing, which is nothing
but context path-based routing for our applications.
So, single load balancer can be leveraged for,
using for multiple applications hosted
on AWS based on context paths, okay?
In the same way it supports host-based routing.
So, which means in addition to context path-based routing,
we can deploy multiple applications
and then using different host names
we can route to those respective applications back
of this load balancer.
Example, apps.cubeoncloud.com will go to applications, okay?
And users.cubeoncloud.com
can go to user management rest services.
So, something like that, okay?
And next is support for routing based on fields inside
the request like HTTP headers, HTTP methods,
query parameters and source IP addresses.
So, by seeing these three features itself
we can understand that it's not only a load balancer,
it is also a routing solution on the HTTP level, okay?
And supports for redirecting request
from one URL to another.
So, more or less standard apache web server
are nginx related features it has, okay?
Supporting for a returning a custom HTTP response to
and supporting for registering lambda functions as targets.
So, anything deployed in AWS one service always integrates
with multiple other services.
In the same way, multiple lambda functions also,
we can register them
to this respective load balancer targets.
In the same way, it supports for load balancers
to authenticate users of our applications
through their corporate or social identities
before routing requests.
So, this is a latest feature available
and then it is for providing the out of box authentication
for our applications hosted on this respective load balancer
with our corporator social identities.
So, it also supports containerized applications,
mainly AWS ECS out of the box integrated
with this respective application load balancer.
It also supports monitoring the health
of each service independently
as health checks are defined at the target group level.
Okay? So, that is also one important feature.
It supports registering targets by IP addresses.
So, due to this support, we are able
to leverage this very effectively in fargate with EKS, okay?
So, because of this respective feature, okay?
And in inside VPC or outside VPC also
it can do this stuff, okay?
Using the IP address and all in all, ALB's latest
and greatest load balancer with many good features.
So, this is about what application load balancer
is capable of and what it can do.
So now, if this type of load balancers,
if we can use it as a Ingress service
for us from Kubernetes.
So, we are going to have a leverage of all these features
for our applications hosted on Kubernetes.
So, that's the beauty of AWS here, okay?
So, which means like, AWS application load balancer
can be provisioned for our Kubernetes
using Kubernetes Ingress manifest, okay?
So, let's move on.
So, let's see what is this ALB IC.
ALB IC is nothing but ALB Ingress controller, right?
So, ALB IC triggers the creation
of an application load balancer
and the necessary support AWS resources
whenever an Ingress resource
is created in the EKS cluster, okay?
With annotation name Kubernetes.ioIngress.class
is equal to ALB, okay?
So, the ALB Ingress controller supports two traffic modes,
instance mode and then IP mode.
We also seen that application load balancer supports
both the traffic modes, instance and IP.
So, the same things are available
in ALB Ingress Controller also.
Okay, let's see what are those in detail.
And so, this is one more documentation link
for this ALB Ingress controller.
So, you can review this link
and then understand annotations inside that,
and everything whenever you are going through it.
And when you are going in the advanced sections,
you'll understand more and then more about it, okay?
So now, let's see the instance mode.
So, in instance mode, Ingress controller registers nodes
within your cluster as targets for the ALB.
So, which is nothing but, nodes are nothing
but our worker nodes in our EKS cluster will be registered
to the targets inside the application load balancer.
So, traffic reaching the ALB is routed to NodePort
for your service and the proxy to the pods.
So, which means like, whatever the NodePort services
we are going to create in front of our applications,
means like, in front of our application deployments.
So, first ALB routes to those NodePort services
and that NodePort service is routing to our pods, okay?
So, this is the default traffic mode available
in our ALB Ingress manifest, okay?
And you really don't need to define
or specify that implement instance mode.
By default it is applicable for us
but we can also explicitly specify it,
like this with target type as instance annotation
in our Ingress manifest if we want it
and we have the IP mode.
So, in IP mode, it register pods as targets for the ALB.
Here if you see, it registered the EKS worker notes
as targets for our ALB target types, okay?
But here it registers the pods as targets for the ALB.
So, traffic reaching the ALB is directly routed
to our pods for our service.
So, now here, if you want to use IP
then you can use the target type as IP.
So now, why these two instance modes
and then how it is useful for us from AWS EKS perspective.
That's the core thing here, right?
So, when you are using worker nodes,
means like, manager node groups in your EKS cluster,
by default you can use instance mode.
Or if you want to use IP mode,
still you have an option of using the IP mode.
But when you are using only fargate only profile,
which means in your cluster
you really don't have any other node groups,
manager node groups like EC2 instances,
you are just only using fargate profiles.
At that point of time, you need to use
and if you want to use application load balancer,
then you need to use only IP mode.
Why?
Because fargate nodes doesn't support the NodePort service.
Why? Because we really don't have control
on fargate related notes whatever it has created
in the background
because that is a serverless concept, right?
So, that's about the reason you need to use IP mode.
So, whenever you are using fargate,
for those things if you need Ingress manifest,
you can use IP mode.
And whenever you are using manager node groups,
you can use either instance mode or IP mode.
So, that's about these traffic modes.
So, now moving on.
So, let's see how ALB Ingress works.
So this diagram, I directly took it from their website
and we will see what it is,
and then from step by step process how it looks like.
And the link for this diagram is available here in detail.
Okay? So now, you see this is a Kubernetes cluster, okay?
And these are AWS resources.
So, we already said that whenever we provision
our Ingress manifest on the Kubernetes cluster
it is going to create a AWS resources.
So, what are those AWS resources
is what we are going to see now, right?
So, in the step one the controller watches for,
which is nothing but the Kubernetes controller,
watches for Ingress events from API server.
And when it finds Ingress resources
that satisfies the requirements,
it begins the creation of these AWS resources.
So, what are those AWS resources?
You can see number two, which is application load balancer.
So, application load balancer is created
in AWS for the new Ingress resource provision
in a Kubernetes cluster, okay?
But one thing here is
this application load balancer will have a version
of ELB v2, okay?
So, whenever you see we have two types of resources
in elastic load balancers in AWS
and this application load balancer,
whatever it is getting created is ELB v2.
So, that's one important note you need to remember, okay?
Why? Because whenever you are giving IAM permissions
and all those stuff, you need to ensure
that ELB V2 also included in those stuff, okay?
And the next thing is target groups, okay?
So, now the point number three is target groups
are created in AWS for each unique Kubernetes service
described in Ingress resource, okay?
So, whatever the application related NodePort services
you have defined in your manifest,
so, those related stuff has been created.
And with that, including those NodePort services
it is also going to create whatever the pods
you have defined also, right?
So now, another important thing
in your Ingress manifest is listeners, right?
So, whatever the listeners you specify
for your application load balancer,
those gets created here which is 8ER 443,
whatever you define.
So, those listeners also will get created
in your application load balancer.
So finally, rules, right?
So, as we said that application load balancer
supports context path-based routing,
so which is nothing but slash star, slash products,
slash accounts, okay?
So, slash star should go to one target group,
slash product should go to one target group
and then slash account should go to one target group.
So, all these things are supported.
In our respect to application load balancer
which we are provisioning as a Kubernetes manifest.
Okay? So, now another thing here is like,
if you want to delete, right?
So, if you want to delete all these things,
just delete our Kubernetes Ingress manifest here,
means like, pro Ingress resource whatever
we have provision deleted
and then all these things will get deleted.
So, that's about the Ingress on a very high level.
But the core thing here is what we need
to look into is, what we are going to build
in next five to six sections related to Ingress.
So, if you see here on the GitHub repo, right?
So, from application load balancer perspective
you are going to do close to six sections, step by step.
Very big, big sections we are going to implement
and everywhere you are going
to have multiple manifests available
for us to implement the stuff.
So, what are we going to do?
We are going to see in our next lecture.
So, I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.